README.md, before:

Opencast Video Editor
=====================

[![Build & Deploy](https://github.com/opencast/opencast-editor/workflows/Build%20&%20Deploy/badge.svg)
](https://github.com/opencast/opencast-editor/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Build+%26+Deploy%22)
[![Demo deployment](https://img.shields.io/badge/demo-editor.opencast.org-blue)
](https://editor.opencast.org)

The Opencast Video Editor is a tool included by [Opencast](https://opencast.org) to cut and arrange recordings.


Quick Test
----------

To test locally, run:

    npm start

This will start a local test server in the development mode.
Open [http://localhost:3000](localhost:3000) to view it in the browser.

The latest version connected to [develop.opencast.org](https://develop.opencast.org) is also publicly available
at [editor.opencast.org](https://editor.opencast.org).

To open a specific event with the editor, use the GET-Parameter `id` like so: `https://editor.opencast.org/?id=27cd7156-fda6-4b31-aab5-d56833012caf`.


Building the Editor
-------------------

To build the editor for production to the `build` folder, run:

    npm run build

To make the editor work in a sub-path, use:

    PUBLIC_URL=/path npm run build


Configuration
-------------


### Configuration Methods

Most configuration options can be set either as an option in the configuration file or as a URL parameter.

The configuration file is called `editor-settings.toml`. It can either be provided in the public folder when running locally or can be found under `etc/opencast/ui-config/mh_default_org/editor` when deployed in Opencast. More information can be found in the example configuration file.

If a configuration option belongs to a section, URL parameters are a combination of section and option separated by a single dot.

For example, the following option in the configuration file:

```toml
[trackSelection]
show = true
```

…can be specified as URL parameter in the form `trackSelection.show=true`.

If an option can be specified both ways, the URL parameter will always take precedence.


### Settings

Options which are usually specified in the configuration file are documented in there as well. Metadata configuration options are only documented in the configuration file.

| Option              | URL | File | Description
| --------------------|-----|------|------------
| id                  | ✓   | ✓    | Id of the event that the editor should open by default.
| mediaPackageId      | ✓   | ✓    | Deprecated. Use `id` instead.
| opencast.url        | ✗   | ✓    | URL of the opencast server to connect to.
| opencast.name       | ✗   | ✓    | Opencast user to use. For demo purposes only.
| opencast.password   | ✗   | ✓    | Password to use for authentication. For demo purposes only.
| metadata.show       | ✓   | ✓    | Show metadata tab.
| trackSelection.show | ✓   | ✓    | Show track selection tab.
| thumbnail.show      | ✓   | ✓    | Show thumbnail tab. Demo only.
| debug               | ✓   | ✗    | Enable internationalization debugging.
| lng                 | ✓   | ✗    | Select a specific language. Use language codes like `de` or `en-US`.


How to cut a release for Opencast
---------------------------------

1. (Optional) Run the [Update translations](https://github.com/opencast/opencast-editor/actions/workflows/update-translations.yml) workflow, to make sure all changes from crowdin are included in the next release.
1. Switch to the commit you want to turn into the release
1. Create and push a new tag
   ```bash
    DATE=$(date +%Y-%m-%d)
    git tag -m Release -s "$DATE"
    git push upstream "$DATE":"$DATE"
   ```
1. Wait for the [Create release draft](https://github.com/opencast/opencast-editor/actions/workflows/create-release.yml)
   workflow to finish
    - It will create a new [GitHub release draft](https://github.com/opencast/opencast-editor/releases)
    - Review and publish the draft
1. Submit a pull request against Opencast
    - [Update the release](https://github.com/opencast/opencast/blob/b2bea8822b95b8692bb5bbbdf75c9931c2b7298a/modules/editor/pom.xml#L16-L17)
    - [Adjust the documentation](https://github.com/opencast/opencast/blob/b2bea8822b95b8692bb5bbbdf75c9931c2b7298a/docs/guides/admin/docs/modules/editor.md)
      if necessary
    - [Update the configuration](https://github.com/opencast/opencast/blob/b2bea8822b95b8692bb5bbbdf75c9931c2b7298a/etc/ui-config/mh_default_org/editor/editor-settings.toml)
      if necessary
    - Verify that the new release runs in Opencast, then create the pull request.


Opencast API used by the Editor
-------------

The editor accesses the following endpoints in Opencast:

* `/editor/<mediaPackageId>/edit.json`      (introduced in OC 9.3)
* `/editor/<mediaPackageId>/metadata.json`  (introduced in OC 9.4)

If you want to use current editor frontend with an earlier Opencast version, you will have to cherry pick the relevant commits from the Opencast repository yourself.


Translating the Editor
-------------
You can help translating the editor to your language on [crowdin.com/project/opencast-editor](https://crowdin.com/project/opencast-editor). Simply request to join the project on Crowdin and start translating. If you are interested in translating a language which is not a target language right now, please create [a GitHub issue](https://github.com/opencast/opencast-editor/issues) and we will add the language.


Notes on Waveform Generation
----------------------------

The editor displays a waveform image on the timeline in the cutting view. This waveform image is generated at runtime
from one of the videos of the event. However, to properly generate the image, the video it is generated from needs to be
loaded completely once, which takes time and bandwidth. If this poses a problem for your use case, you can instead have
Opencast provide an image in the internal publication. Provided images will always take precedence and prevent the
generation algorithm form running. The provided image should have the same flavor that is specified in the Opencast
configuration file `etc/org.opencastproject.editor.EditorServiceImpl.cfg`.

Commit message:

Add callback url for integration (#1084)
After finishing the editing, the user can now navigate back to the calling system using a button. For this, the integrating system can pass a `callbackUrl` url parameter to provide a return link. In the editor settings, the prefixes of the allowed callback urls must be provided to prevent malicious callback urls.

README.md, after:

Opencast Video Editor
=====================

[![Build & Deploy](https://github.com/opencast/opencast-editor/workflows/Build%20&%20Deploy/badge.svg)
](https://github.com/opencast/opencast-editor/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Build+%26+Deploy%22)
[![Demo deployment](https://img.shields.io/badge/demo-editor.opencast.org-blue)
](https://editor.opencast.org)

The Opencast Video Editor is a tool included by [Opencast](https://opencast.org) to cut and arrange recordings.


Quick Test
----------

To test locally, run:

    npm start

This will start a local test server in the development mode.
Open [http://localhost:3000](localhost:3000) to view it in the browser.

The latest version connected to [develop.opencast.org](https://develop.opencast.org) is also publicly available
at [editor.opencast.org](https://editor.opencast.org).

To open a specific event with the editor, use the GET-Parameter `id` like so: `https://editor.opencast.org/?id=27cd7156-fda6-4b31-aab5-d56833012caf`.


Building the Editor
-------------------

To build the editor for production to the `build` folder, run:

    npm run build

To make the editor work in a sub-path, use:

    PUBLIC_URL=/path npm run build


Configuration
-------------


### Configuration Methods

Most configuration options can be set either as an option in the configuration file or as a URL parameter.

The configuration file is called `editor-settings.toml`. It can either be provided in the public folder when running locally or can be found under `etc/opencast/ui-config/mh_default_org/editor` when deployed in Opencast. More information can be found in the example configuration file.

If a configuration option belongs to a section, URL parameters are a combination of section and option separated by a single dot.

For example, the following option in the configuration file:

```toml
[trackSelection]
show = true
```

…can be specified as URL parameter in the form `trackSelection.show=true`.

If an option can be specified both ways, the URL parameter will always take precedence.


### Settings

Options which are usually specified in the configuration file are documented in there as well. Metadata configuration options are only documented in the configuration file.

| Option                  | URL | File | Description                                                          |
|-------------------------|-----|------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| id                      | ✓   | ✓    | Id of the event that the editor should open by default.              |
| mediaPackageId          | ✓   | ✓    | Deprecated. Use `id` instead.                                        |
| allowedCallbackPrefixes | ✗   | ✓    | Allowed callback prefixes in callback url.                           |
| callbackUrl             | ✓   | ✓    | Callback url to go back after finish.                                |
| opencast.url            | ✗   | ✓    | URL of the opencast server to connect to.                            |
| opencast.name           | ✗   | ✓    | Opencast user to use. For demo purposes only.                        |
| opencast.password       | ✗   | ✓    | Password to use for authentication. For demo purposes only.          |
| metadata.show           | ✓   | ✓    | Show metadata tab.                                                   |
| trackSelection.show     | ✓   | ✓    | Show track selection tab.                                            |
| thumbnail.show          | ✓   | ✓    | Show thumbnail tab. Demo only.                                       |
| debug                   | ✓   | ✗    | Enable internationalization debugging.                               |
| lng                     | ✓   | ✗    | Select a specific language. Use language codes like `de` or `en-US`. |

How to cut a release for Opencast
---------------------------------

1. (Optional) Run the [Update translations](https://github.com/opencast/opencast-editor/actions/workflows/update-translations.yml) workflow, to make sure all changes from crowdin are included in the next release.
1. Switch to the commit you want to turn into the release
1. Create and push a new tag
   ```bash
    DATE=$(date +%Y-%m-%d)
    git tag -m Release -s "$DATE"
    git push upstream "$DATE":"$DATE"
   ```
1. Wait for the [Create release draft](https://github.com/opencast/opencast-editor/actions/workflows/create-release.yml)
   workflow to finish
    - It will create a new [GitHub release draft](https://github.com/opencast/opencast-editor/releases)
    - Review and publish the draft
1. Submit a pull request against Opencast
    - [Update the release](https://github.com/opencast/opencast/blob/b2bea8822b95b8692bb5bbbdf75c9931c2b7298a/modules/editor/pom.xml#L16-L17)
    - [Adjust the documentation](https://github.com/opencast/opencast/blob/b2bea8822b95b8692bb5bbbdf75c9931c2b7298a/docs/guides/admin/docs/modules/editor.md)
      if necessary
    - [Update the configuration](https://github.com/opencast/opencast/blob/b2bea8822b95b8692bb5bbbdf75c9931c2b7298a/etc/ui-config/mh_default_org/editor/editor-settings.toml)
      if necessary
    - Verify that the new release runs in Opencast, then create the pull request.


Opencast API used by the Editor
-------------

The editor accesses the following endpoints in Opencast:

* `/editor/<mediaPackageId>/edit.json`      (introduced in OC 9.3)
* `/editor/<mediaPackageId>/metadata.json`  (introduced in OC 9.4)

If you want to use current editor frontend with an earlier Opencast version, you will have to cherry pick the relevant commits from the Opencast repository yourself.


Translating the Editor
-------------
You can help translating the editor to your language on [crowdin.com/project/opencast-editor](https://crowdin.com/project/opencast-editor). Simply request to join the project on Crowdin and start translating. If you are interested in translating a language which is not a target language right now, please create [a GitHub issue](https://github.com/opencast/opencast-editor/issues) and we will add the language.


Notes on Waveform Generation
----------------------------

The editor displays a waveform image on the timeline in the cutting view. This waveform image is generated at runtime
from one of the videos of the event. However, to properly generate the image, the video it is generated from needs to be
loaded completely once, which takes time and bandwidth. If this poses a problem for your use case, you can instead have
Opencast provide an image in the internal publication. Provided images will always take precedence and prevent the
generation algorithm form running. The provided image should have the same flavor that is specified in the Opencast
configuration file `etc/org.opencastproject.editor.EditorServiceImpl.cfg`.
